# **_Bounding Boxes 1.0.0_**
Documentation for the initial release of BoundingBoxes.

Currently, it provides the Editor enhancements for viewing and manipulating the bounding box, as well as the MonoBehavior implementation of the Editor behavior and the associated fields. There is also packaged in WASDCamera, an example implementation of a basic WASD camera constrained by a bounding box.

# **_Support_**

It is recommended to submit bug reports and feature requests on the [Github Issues](https://github.com/Gestalt-Engine/BoundingBoxes/issues) page.

<gestaltengine@gmail.com>

## **_Unity_**
Currently developed on `2018.03.0f2`


## **_Editor Controls_**
The editor will serialize the ranges and center point.
Edit bounding box will toggle the visibility of the box and its controls.

#### Reset center to parent
> Will reset the box's center point to it's transform position.

#### Reset box to defaults
> Will reset the box's ranges to default and center point to it's transform position.

# **_WASDCamera_**
WASDCamera is a simple example implementation of the bounding boxes which can be attached to a camera in a project via *`Add Component -> Scripts -> WASDCamera`*

```c#
using BoundingBoxes;

public class WASDCamera : BoundingBox
{
    public bool CameraLocked = false;
    public Camera cam;

    public void Start()
    {
        if (cam == null){
            cam = Camera.main;
        }
    }

    private void FixedUpdate()
    {
        if (!CameraLocked)
        {
            float xAxisValue = Input.GetAxis("Horizontal");
            float yAxisValue = Input.GetAxis("Vertical");
            Vector3 cameraMove = new Vector3(xAxisValue, yAxisValue, 0.0f);

            if (cam != null)
            {
                cam.transform.Translate(cameraMove);

                if (cam.transform.position.x < GetLeftRange())
                {
                    cam.transform.position = new Vector3(GetLeftRange(), cam.transform.position.y, cam.transform.position.z);
                }
                if (cam.transform.position.x > GetRightRange())
                {
                    cam.transform.position = new Vector3(GetRightRange(), cam.transform.position.y, cam.transform.position.z);
                }
                if (cam.transform.position.y > GetUpRange())
                {
                    cam.transform.position = new Vector3(cam.transform.position.x, GetUpRange(), cam.transform.position.z);
                }
                if (cam.transform.position.y < GetDownRange())
                {
                    cam.transform.position = new Vector3(cam.transform.position.x, GetDownRange(), cam.transform.position.z);
                }
            }
        }
    }
}
```

# **_Available Components_**

### **BoundingBox**
> This is the core Class you can interact with. It already inherits from `MonoBehavior` so you do not need to inherit from it again.

### **WASDCamera**
> See section above.

### **DraggableBoundingBox**
> The custom editor extension that enables the viewing of and manipulation of the bounding box

# **_Available Fields_**
Note: These ranges are not safe to detect the edges of the box, use the methods further below which will account for the Box's center point. These ranges can be used to detect the SIZE of the box, however.

### *float* **UpRange**
> The offset used to calculate the top of the box

### *float* **DownRange**
> The offset used to calculate the bottom of the box

### *float* **LeftRange**
> The offset used to calculate the left side of the box

### *float* **RightRange**
> The offset used to calculate the right side of the box

### *Vector3* **Center**
> The defined centerpoint of the bounding box (defaults to its parent object)

# **_Methods_**

### *bool* **Visible()**
> Whether or not the bounding box and its controls are visible within the editor

### *void* **SetVisible(bool)**
> Set the visibility of the bounding box and it's controls

### *Vector3* **TopLeft()**
> Returns the point representing the top left most corner of the bounding box, offset from the defined center.

### *Vector3* **TopRight()**
> Returns the point representing the top right most corner of the bounding box, offset from the defined center.

### *Vector3* **BottomLeft()**
> Returns the point representing the bottom left most corner of the bounding box, offset from the defined center.

### *Vector3* **BottomRight()**
> Returns the point representing the bottom right most corner of the bounding box, offset from the defined center.

### *float* **GetLeftRange()**
> Returns the left `x` of the bounding box, offset from the defined center.

### *Vector3* **LeftMiddle()**
> Returns a Vector3 representing the left most middle point of the bounding vox offset from the center of the mounding box.

### *float* **GetRightRange()**
> Returns the right `x` of the bounding box, offset from the defined center.

### *Vector3* **RightMiddle()**
> Returns a Vector3 representing the right most middle point of the bounding vox offset from the center of the mounding box.

### *float* **GetUpRange()**
> Returns the top `y` of the bounding box, offset from the defined center.

### *Vector3* **TopMiddle()**
> Returns a Vector3 representing the top most middle point of the bounding vox offset from the center of the mounding box.

### *float* **GetDownRange()**
> Returns the bottom `y` of the bounding box, offset from the defined center.

### *Vector3* **BottomMiddle()**
> Returns a Vector3 representing the bottom most middle point of the bounding vox offset from the center of the mounding box.

# **Authors**

* Charles Corbett <gestaltengine@gmail.com>